# Predictive-Maintenance-with-Neural-Networks

In this project, the author attempted to build a predictive maintenance model on a dataset, which is originaly retrieved from UCI Machine Learning Repository, using deep learning techniques. The dataset used for this analysis had various categorical variables, which was addressed by creating dummy variables using pandas’ get_dummies() function. The author then removed variables such as “Product ID” and “UDI” that are not considered contributive.
The target variable in the original dataset showed a significant imbalance of values between 0 and 1. To overcome this issue, the author used the Synthetic Minority Over-Sampling Technique (SMOTE) to upsample the minority class. The effect of SMOTE was visually demonstrated using a pairplot and a countplot from Seaborn.
The resulting processed data was standardized using the StandardScaler() function from the scikit-learn library, and then split into training and test sets using train_test_split(). The author then created two versions of a deep learning model, one with a smaller hidden layer of size 2 and the other with a larger hidden layer of size 30. The performance of these models was evaluated using classificationSummary() and classification_report(), which showed that both models struggled to identify true positives, likely because of the significant imbalance between 0 and 1 in the target variable.
To address these issues, the author then used GridSearchCV method to select the best parameters for the model and used five-fold cross-validation to ensure the model is reliable in identifying both 0’s and 1’s. The best parameters were then used to train the final model, which displayed strong performance in identifying both types of positives. Finally, the results were validated using cross-validation to ensure the model’s generalizability.

Dataset: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/AI4I+2020+Predictive+Maintenance+Dataset
